For the second exercise, we are going to
write a
simple calculator that allows the user to
enter two numbers,
operands, and then an operator, and then
it will return
the result of applying the operator to the
two operands.
So let's get started.
We're gonna call this Chap7ex2.py.
So what we'll do is, just to let the user
now in advance or someone
reading our code what our variables are,
we will set them up and declare them here.
It's not necessarily always done in
Python.
I just like to make it clear at the
beginning that we're going to have two
operands, op1 and op2, and then an
operator,
and those are going to be our variables.
So we're going to say, while op1 is not
equal to q.
And that may look odd because op1 is going
to be a number, but,
of course, when we get input from raw
input, it comes in as a string.
So I'm going to check to see if the user
enters
a string before I can burn it to a
floating point number.
So our first thing we're going to do is
prompt the user and our first
number Q to quit and then we'll say OP one
is equal to raw input.
If op1 equals q, then we'll break,
otherwise op1 equals float op1.
Now, we have it in the right data type to
perform an arithmetic operation on it.
Then we'll say print, enter second number.
Op2 equals float raw input.
We can convert op2 immediately, so we can
do it in one line, like we're used to.
And we're gonna say print, enter an
operation, and
then we'll provide the operations that
they can perform.
We're gonna limit it to addition,
subtraction, multiplication and division.
Op equals raw input.
We'll get the operator in.
Now, we just have a series of if,
elif statements to determine which
operation to perform.
If Op equals plus, and we'll say, print,
op1
plus op2, elif, op equals subtraction,
print,
op1 minus op2, elif, I see one thing that
I
do want to take out, are these
parenthesis.
Many other programming languages require
them.
Now elif, op equals multiplication,
print, op1 times op2, elif, op equals
division, print, op1 divided by op2,
else, print did not recognize operator.
A little error message, you have to enter
something other than our four operators.
We can also take the parentheses off here.
Again, I'm trying to use Python idioms as
much as possible.
And the parentheses are discouraged.
Now, I'm checking for colons in all the
right places.
And I probably have them all there.
If not, they'll be fixed when we actually
run our code the first time,
or we'll be able to fix them when we run
our code the first time.
So let's give it a shot.
Chap7ex2.py.
So we'll do a simple addition.
2 plus 2 is 4.
Notice it does it in floating point, so
it's 4.0.
Let's try a subtraction problem.
23, 11, subtract.
And that's 12.0, that looks good.
Let's try a multiplication problem.
4.4, 1.1, multiplied, 4.84, very good.
Let's do a division, 144, 12, divide,
12.0, that's good.
Let's hit Q to quit, and our program
quits.
So going back and looking at the code
again, we have a simple calculator that
allows the user to enter two numbers and
an operator and then performs the desired
operation.
And we give them a means of getting out of
the program by typing Q to quit.
So that wraps up this exercise, and it
concludes this chapter on the while Loop.
And now, we're ready to move to the next
Python loop type and that's the for Loop.